# Hardware sets

Hardware sets are collections of hardware device types along with their associated
parameters. They are used in FINESSE to represent a particular hardware rig (e.g.
FINESSE or UNIRAS), so that users can easily swap between them. FINESSE comes with some
built in configurations, but users can also define their own, either for convenience
during testing or to build on FINESSE's functionality.

Hardware sets are represented in a [YAML](https://yaml.org) format. Custom hardware sets
can be created and imported into FINESSE. Here is an example:

```yaml
version: 1
name: My hardware set
devices:
  stepper_motor:
    class_name: stepper_motor.st10_controller.ST10Controller
    params:
      port: "0403:6011"
      baudrate: 9600
  temperature_controller.hot_bb:
    class_name: temperature.tc4820.TC4820
    params:
      port: "0403:6011 (2)"
      baudrate: 115200
  temperature_controller.cold_bb:
    class_name: temperature.tc4820.TC4820
    params:
      port: "0403:6011 (3)"
      baudrate: 115200
  temperature_monitor:
    class_name: temperature.dp9800.DP9800
    params:
      port: "0403:6001"
      baudrate: 38400
  sensors:
    class_name: sensors.em27_sensors.EM27Sensors
  spectrometer:
    class_name: spectrometer.opus_interface.OPUSInterface
    params:
      host: 10.10.0.2
      port: 80
```

The `version` defines the version of the schema that should be used for validating the
hardware set file. The `name` property defines a human-readable name for the hardware
set, to be displayed in the GUI and the `devices` property contains information about
the devices in this hardware set. The `devices` array consists of key-value pairs, with
the keys corresponding to device base types (see [Hardware]). The values are YAML
objects with a `class_name` property and (optionally) a `params` property. `class_name`
is a string corresponding to the Python class name, along with the last part of the
module name (all plugins are in the `finesse.hardware.plugins` module, so this part is
omitted). `params` is also a YAML object, containing key-value pairs for each of the
device parameters (see [Hardware] again). If any of the parameters are omitted, their
default values will be used.

Note that the port names are in a FINESSE-specific format. The string is composed of the
USB vendor and product IDs and (optionally) a number to distinguish ports which share
all these properties (as happens with USB-to-serial devices with multiple ports, for
example). The easiest way to figure out these strings is to run FINESSE and click on
"Manage devices". The available USB ports will be listed in the dialog.

[Hardware]: ./hardware.md
